today's talk is really about anxiety but
what i really love about it is there are
a few dimensions to this anxiety
the first is we can see how growing up
in a particular environment
predisposes your mind to anxiety the
second element that we're going to dig
into
is how using substances can sometimes
exacerbate our anxiety
or even sort of create particular
situations in our mind that
feel like anxiety but may actually have
a different diagnostic
kind of perspective and then the last
thing about today's video is sort of how
do we deal with anxiety and sort of
overcoming some of the hesitations that
people have
around getting treatment so i really
thought that chuck's
chuck did a fantastic job um of
of like touching on i really loved this
discussion about anxiety
because we talk about anxiety like it's
monolithic
right like i have anxiety like you have
anxiety we all have anxiety
what is the treatment for anxiety like
you know in western medicine we
you know it's like you have anxiety
period and we heard from chuck he's like
you know my doctor
gives me this medicine and like because
i have anxiety
and and so it it like our system of
medicine we treat anxiety we don't treat
people
but what i really love about today's
talk is it's an exploration of where
anxiety starts
how your upbringing brings you to
anxiety
how substances can actually exacerbate
things
or make things worse and then also how a
lot of things that look like anxiety may
be a little bit more diagnostically
nuanced
and then finally about like how getting
treatment
is important but what are the things
that can get in the way of you wanting
treatment
and so all that kind of stuff is um
you know is fantastic so i think this is
really what like
explorations of anxiety look like where
i want you guys to understand
that it's not just about a clinical
diagnosis
and a medication it's about a whole
spectrum
of like origins of where you how you got
to hear
thinking about these other influences
that have compounded your anxiety over
time
and how to approach it in a truly
multi-disciplinary manner
venting that negative energy using
meditation taking medication
seeking a therapist overcoming your
fears that you kind of internally face
having to face those fears deal with
those fears etcetera
really fantastic how's it going
good man how are you i kept me for a
second
oh i'm good i'm good i appreciate you
having me on thank you very much for
that
dude i appreciate you coming on everyone
is always so grateful that like we're
having them on and i don't think you
guys realize like
we wouldn't be anywhere without you i
think it's more so
uh i'm sure there's a lot of people that
could you know be sitting here instead
of me right now you know what i mean so
still got to be grateful yeah that's
awesome man it's it's very positive of
you
and and so are is your name c do
uh yeah it's just like an abbreviation
of my real name which is charles dolan
you know
um but yeah you can call me chuck
charles c dude
it's all good okay chuck
chuck yep that works mono syllable and
um
okay so chuck is there something in
particular that you uh you know
you were thinking we could talk about
today or maybe something that we could
help you with
um i mean i guess i could uh
kind of you know break down what i'm
going through i don't like i don't
really
like talk about this so i'm not really
sure like what i should be talking about
or what you're interested in or
what you can do to help me um
but you know basically i've been i've
been dealing with like anxiety for a
long time
and i would say it's gotten
progressively worse um it started to
like hit me
really bad when my wife was pregnant
with her first kid i don't know if it
was related
i feel like subconsciously i guess it
would have to be related if that's like
when it started getting bad but um
basically i'm like
it's kind of weird like i'm actually
like afraid to have anxiety
like i think my my biggest fear is like
having a panic attack because like one
time i had like a panic attack that
lasted like
what i would say was like an hour or
something and i felt like i i wasn't in
control of my body like i felt like
i felt like reality became like fake you
know what i mean
um it's kind of hard to explain so i
feel like that's like my biggest fear
and like
i feel like i'm constantly like
overthinking and i just like
i just have like um constant like
chatter in my head like
okay am i gonna have a panic attack okay
i'm feeling nervous like
like the slightest thing like wow i feel
like a tingle like in my body
like oh my my heart is like beating
faster like
you know anything just kind of starts
like those
thoughts that just don't ever stop if
that makes sense like it's just
true most of the time i would say
it's like an all-day thing but um you
know i kind of had like this uh
this thing on my stream a few days ago
which you know kind of started
you know me reaching out and trying to
make like small improvements and uh
i would say for the most part it's been
better like you know
significantly better and generally it is
better i think i just had a
string of like really bad days but um
you know even then like when i'm feeling
normal like my brain is just so weird
i'll be like
wow i haven't thought about anxiety in a
while oh
now i'm going to start thinking about it
you know it's like like i noticed myself
feeling good
and then i start to question oh yeah i'm
feeling good your anxiety is like
you're not allowed to do that it doesn't
stop it doesn't stop yeah
wow dude it sounds heavy bro
i mean you know um i i don't want to
i guess oversell it like i feel like you
know
i'm probably doing better than some
other people that are dealing with this
because i do
i do do my daily things and you know i i
travel
i go out and stuff like that but it's
definitely
sometimes i feel like it's harder to
enjoy like living in the moment you know
and
it kind of makes me sad sometimes so
yeah yeah
absolutely man how long have you been
kind of carrying this around like
how long has this anxiety been with you
i mean like i said i've had it
at a young age i would probably well i
don't know how young is young but like
maybe like my mid teenage years like 16
or something is like when i you know
experienced my first panic attack and
then uh it's probably been
pretty rough for like three ish years
now like you know my son's almost three
and it was like while we were pregnant
with him so um i would say that's like
when it started to get
not nearly as manageable like i actually
had to
get like medicated for it because i was
waking up
every single day shaking like my my
whole day would be me like literally
shaking
and i i couldn't stop it and it was i
couldn't eat and i was
you know i was struggling really bad and
i tried you know
really hard to not do that but like the
medication helped me so much that i was
like this this just had to be
you know the answer because i couldn't
live the way i was living
absolutely man so i'm glad that you got
mental health treatment um because it
certainly sounds to me like this is like
a clinical case of anxiety
and um i'm also kind of noticing
so so can do you mind if i ask you a
couple of questions just about what kind
of treatment you've tried in a little
bit of your
treatment history sure
um yeah go ahead feel free to ask me
anything yeah so so in
the so let me take a step back and
explain why i'm asking so usually we
steer clear of clinical topics on stream
because this really isn't
supposed to be medical advice the reason
i want to ask you a little bit about
your treatment history is because in my
experience
as a psychiatrist there are some things
that have to do with
clinical anxiety and there are actually
non-clinical solutions that we can learn
around anxiety as well
and i basically want to parse out how
much of the clinical stuff has been done
so that i know how to approach the
non-clinical stuff
if that makes sense so i've got a couple
of like basic questions for you okay
you don't have to answer anything
because this is for your personal
medical history it's going to be like
super high level stuff
so it sounds like uh you're taking
medication now and that the medication
helps
yeah okay um and it sounds like you
started medication around the time that
your wife was pregnant
okay have you tried psychotherapy or
something besides medication
no okay so that that's that's that's
basically all the questions i need to
ask
because um that'll sort of help me
understand like what to include and what
not to include and
and kind of how we go from here sure um
any particular reason you haven't tried
uh psychotherapy
honestly um i would feel i would say
like
until as of like recently um i kind of
feel like
i just my thought process was like if i
just kind of deal with this and like
try and forget about it it'll go away
like i didn't really like talking about
it like this conversation actually is
like kind of like
making me nervous a little bit but i'm
happy to be here and like
i i also didn't really like want to go
to a
like you know i guess a psychologist is
that
because like i don't know i just
i guess i guess it just made me a little
bit nervous you know like it
sure so let's start let's start because
he said that you have trouble being
present focused right so let's start in
the present so i noticed that when we
started the conversation you were doing
well
and then and then as especially when i
asked you a little bit about your
treatment history you've started
crossing your arms
i'm noticing you're feeling more nervous
so tell me how you feel right now
i mean i guess i i guess i feel a little
bit nervous you know
i'm okay you know i definitely make it
through the conversation but
yeah absolutely so so i want to just
point out that language because it's so
interesting right it's like
you're uh you play wow right yes
so what i'm hearing is like you've got a
couple of dots on you and your hp is
it's [ __ ] ticking down but you're
like you know i'll make it like i'm
still gonna wipe
like you know we're still gonna win the
raid like we're running out of mana like
this boat is sinking but we're gonna
make it to shore
that's what i'm hearing from you which
which is like
it's a god-awful way to go through life
for sure yeah i don't disagree
you know so so i i think that our goal
here is not to make it through to some
you know it's like let's figure out how
we can
you know cleanse those dots right
because what i want to help you with is
like to not
have to live this way it's not about
overcoming your anxiety to survive like
that's just not
any way to live life right and i i can
see that
you've learned how to do that really
well actually really awesome and noble
like i'm sure that you're
you know your kid is grateful your
family is grateful that you've learned
how to manage that anxiety but it's also
like
i can see it kind of clawing away at you
and you're sort of like keeping it at
bay while you're trying to live your
life
and you're sort of protecting your loved
ones from the impact of that anxiety
does that make sense to you or resonate
at all yeah it does
how do you feel right now uh
i feel you know the same okay
did that do anything to your nervousness
as you were listening to that
not necessarily i think it's kind of
like i think it like kind of plateaus
you know i mean okay so the most part
tell me what
what do you mean by nervousness um
what do you experience right now
uh i guess like i just kind of like if i
feel like weird in my own skin does that
make sense like
i guess and then um
maybe that's kind of it i don't know
like i just
i guess i like try and just do things
like like fiddle my hands and you know
move
move around a little bit um
i don't know and this may sound so i'm
gonna
you know see your weird statement and
raise you
in a weirder statement do you think that
sometimes when you fiddle and stuff
you're trying to find your way back into
your own skin
i'm not sure i feel like it's a way for
me to just like
do something and i guess like just keep
my hands moving or
okay i mean just like a like maybe like
a nervous tic or something like
tapping your leg or you know like
playing with something in your hands
just
just to move around i guess okay are you
having particular thoughts right now
no i feel like for the most part
unless like my mind is like running
really crazy
when i'm like distracted i'm like
generally okay
um and like i said you know since like
that those a few days ago
i started like uh trying to eat better
and trying to exercise a little bit i'm
not doing anything crazy and
you know some people recommended like 15
minutes of you know deep breaths
before and after you wake up and i've
been doing that and i i kind of felt
like there was like immediate results
like i felt like my my uh my thought
process slowed down quite a bit
not like in a i can't like function way
but like
the racing thoughts like definitely
almost went away immediately
okay um like i had a string of
excuse me uh really bad days
and uh where i just kind of felt like my
whole day i just couldn't
like enjoy anything except the fact that
like you're not gonna have a panic
attack you're not gonna
like you're gonna be okay like you know
that just you know
so that's what the racing thoughts are
they're kind of sometimes
you know that's definitely i would say
like the start of it
um you know sometimes it could get worse
than that um
you know i've always been like
yeah what percentage of your anxiety is
about being anxious
a lot i would say i like i
like i told you like my my first panic
attack was like
um like super like scary to me like
to a traumatizing matter like i was you
know i thought i was gonna die
and i was afraid that um
you know i was afraid that uh
i would like potentially like i could
lose my mind and never like be brought
back to sanity
and um i wouldn't you know i wouldn't be
able to control myself and you know
there would be times where i'm driving
like what if i have a panic attack right
now do i just die
like you know like um
going on flights and stuff like what if
i have a panic attack on the plane
you know like what the hell is going to
happen like i can't get off like
you know chuck have you ever heard of
the term agoraphobia
uh i'm recently started reading uh panic
to power
and i think it's been used in there a
few times do you have a
have they explained in the book or do
you remember in the book how they
describe
agoraphobia so i want to explain this
just to educate people okay
so um you know this is something that
you should consider talking to your
your your provider about but just to
explain to you kind of how this works
so first of all what bro what you're
describing is like completely normal
in the sense that some people for
whatever reason and we can get to that
in a second
are kind of like when they create their
character they get the they get the
panic or anxiety
trait and and so sometimes what happens
is people who have panic attacks
will sometimes become agoraphobic and
what agoraphobic means
is fear of going outside so they stay
home and and sometimes in really severe
cases they'll be
you know stuck in their home for years
at a time sounds like
you've already you know i don't think
that's going to happen to you so because
if
if it was gonna happen it would have
already happened so i think you kind of
dodged that bullet
but i think the reason that i bring up
agoraphobia right now is because i think
it illustrates a lot of what you're
going through
so the reason that people become
agoraphobic is out of a fear
of having a panic attack and being in an
uncontrolled environment when they have
a panic attack
so it's not like they literally like are
afraid of the sun or the sky or other
people
literally if you talk to people who are
agoraphobic and these are people who
like you know it's very hard for them to
leave the house
what they tell you is what if i have a
panic attack
in those kinds of places and they're so
afraid of losing control
in the outside like outside of their
home that they
end up that fear becomes so powerful
that they never leave
and there's also sort of like this
agoraphobia light
which is like when people are able to
actually leave the home
but whenever they leave the home their
mind is constantly
scanning for like methods of escape
like what if i have a panic attack while
i'm on a plane like what would i do
what if i have a panic attack if i go to
a party like how am i gonna escape from
that situation if i start to lose
control
does that do you have those kinds of
thoughts
i would say it's not like as bad as
you're describing it like the plain one
is definitely
uh you know a fear of mine for sure like
i'm not afraid
to fly i'm not afraid like the plane is
going to crash like you know
like it's literally just like i'm afraid
i'm gonna get uncomfortable on the plane
and um you know i've definitely been in
that situation before
where i i started to feel panic attack
coming on and i've i've gotten this like
you know even recently
and although it scares the living crap
out of me i just tell myself
you know shut up and take deep breaths
and no one will even notice like you're
going to be 100 fine
and that's what happens like if i feel
like one coming on like i don't know
explain it like hits me
and i'm like in shock for a second i'm
just like
and then i feel like a little bit tingly
you know i mean like i feel like a
little bit tingly and then i'm i'm
okay you know like that's just that's
just it and um
it's weird because i feel like um you
know i said about driving and stuff like
sometimes
i'll think about what happens and i'm
just like doesn't matter you got to live
your life you know like
if it happens you know worse worst case
scenario pull over
like yep you'll be 100 fine like and
it's never happened while driving before
and
so i'm noticing that there's like a
dialogue in your head
oh 100 i talk to myself all the time
hope that doesn't make me crazy
nope doesn't it makes sense um
so so uh chuck i'm going to lay out a
couple of options okay
actually let me make a like one or two
observations so
um i i think today could be really good
in terms of we can like discuss and i
can explain how are you feeling by the
way
i'm all right you know i would say just
all right like
i mean i could i could say i'm good but
obviously like i am i am a little
nervous i was a little nervous about uh
uh coming on here in general like i said
like this isn't something i
i've done ever like i i don't talk about
this really and i just kind of broke
down
you know a few days ago and you know
i'll talk to my wife and stuff like she
obviously knows but
this is obviously something i've never
done publicly before
um sounds like you haven't really done
it much privately either
no yeah i don't i don't what keeps you
what keeps you from talking about it
i would honestly say like i felt like my
thought process was if i ignored it
it'll go away and the more i talk about
it the more real it is
you know like sure
like i don't i i literally don't like
talking about it like people would come
in my chat and say like
what are you going on dr k for and i
like don't even want to answer that
question
even though like i'm the one who did it
publicly like and and how does it feel
when they ask you that question i don't
i don't even like
like saying the word anxiety or reading
it or anything like it
you know because i feel like once i see
it then i uh
like it doesn't stop in my brain you
know i mean like i could be completely
fine and i see it and then i'm like oh
shoot here we go you know like i just
gotta think about it until it goes away
yeah so i know this sounds kind of like
this is gonna be a weird question
um what do you think about
thinking that if you ignore it it'll go
away
um that's kind of like what i i guess
like what my philosophy was originally
right like
yeah why do you think you had that
philosophy
i guess because in my younger years for
the most part it worked
does that make sense excellent yeah good
so so i'm really happy to hear you say
that chuck because a lot of people
who are listening may think that that's
a bad philosophy to have
like if you ignore problems they don't
go away but this is the first thing i
want you to understand
if your mind is doing something there's
a damn good reason for it
and so oddly enough i do think that
ignoring it will make it go away
is actually an oddly effective strategy
that sort of worked for you
because let's remember if we really
tunnel down to i know it sounds really
weird but
if we really tunnel down into it what
happens if you open the door to your
anxiety
it kind of like pours out like it's
absolutely right
so like ignoring it is your way of
keeping the door closed
because one thing that we can listen to
you and if you really like if you just
kind of think about it for a second
the anxiety gets out of your control so
easily
so it's like a bucking bronco that gets
like let loose in your house and then
it's just like
jumping all over this place smashing
furniture
and so really the only thing that you've
learned or not the only
the most effective thing that you have
learned so far is just to keep it
outside of the house
and and this is where i don't think that
ignoring it is really fair what i'd
really say is like
not letting it into your mind because
what i'm hearing from you is that once
it gets into your mind
there's racing thoughts there's thought
loops you know one thought leads to
another leads to another leads to
another
and then you like start having this
dialogue with yourself and then that
kind of like fuels your anxiety even
further
and sometimes you you win but i'd also
venture that sometimes when you argue
with yourself the anxiety is kind of
like a punching bag
where the harder you hit it the harder
it swings back
and so ignoring it is actually it's not
really like
ignoring it per se when this is where
ignoring really means
not letting it into your mind because if
we think about what is the word ignore
mean
it means the active process of
preventing
thoughts about something in your mind
right
so i think ignoring it is a fantastic
tool
in your arsenal of dealing with anxiety
second thing i want to point out so then
there's this dialogue component where
sometimes you fight with your anxiety
and sometimes you win and sometimes you
lose but the problem with fighting with
your anxiety is that oftentimes it fuels
the tension in your mind right and if we
think about it like the low
anxiety states are actually states of
low energy in the mind
would you agree with that statement or
does that make statement make sense with
you
for you um not exactly
in terms of making sense okay so like
when you're calm your mind is not
doing a whole lot and when you're
anxious your mind is doing a ton
and i would venture that when you fight
against your anxiety the
total amount of activity in the mind is
increasing
and i would also venture that when the
total amount of activity in the mind
increases
you get closer to anxiety okay
and if you really think about it when
you succeed in fighting your anxiety
and you stop and you take deep breaths
what happens
to the energy in your mind i guess it
would go down
absolutely right so the more energy in
your mind it's almost like there's like
this portal that is spawning anxious
thoughts
and the more energy you pump into the
mind the more anxious thoughts it spawns
and sometimes you actually like attack
the portal and you try to like
you know overcome it with willpower that
can actually make your anxiety worse
and what actually works is stopping to
fight it's just like
zoning out right like you're just like i
can definitely agree with that
um yeah and and so if we think about it
zoning out
is also like ignoring like ignoring is
not letting
not zoning in the first place there's no
zoning in there's no aggro
and sometimes now what you've learned is
like okay like i don't want to zone in
and now that like we're aggroed like
let's just zone out
because sometimes you'll sit there and
you'll like you know you get aggro you
start tanking you start spamming all
your buttons and all your cooldowns
and sometimes you win and sometimes you
wipe but either way like even while
you're fighting that battle
life continues going on you know time to
feed your kid and put your kid to bed
and here you are [ __ ]
spamming your cooldowns trying to fight
that anxiety like in your head
you know no one else is aware but you're
like getting wiped in a raid
you know and so there's this really
interesting like principle of like
energy and anxiety where actually what
we want to do is
unplug our mind and so this is where
breathing exercises can help
that's just kind of a point that i
wanted to make i'm going to toss out a
couple different things
and then you tell me what you want to
talk about okay
next thing that i want to point out is
that you know your problem is not the
anxiety
it is also your response to the anxiety
so the anxiety is not something that you
control
but then you do something like half of
your panic is around
the fear of future anxiety it's not even
like the core anxiety
so our mind does this thing where
sometimes um
you know we have adaptations to
circumstances
and then sometimes the adaptations
actually end up hurting us more
like just to give you an example if i'm
depressed and i start drinking because
it makes the feelings of depression
go away then that sort of works but like
now i've created a whole new problem
so in your case i think there are two
area two ways you can move forward one
is you can move forward with the root of
your anxiety
and the second is you can move forward
with the response to your anxiety
does that make sense um
are you going to like kind of go in
detail and like uh
yeah go ahead yeah so like there's the
original panic
attack which you sort of can't control
and then there's your fear there's
almost like the ptsd
from the panic attack and what i'm
saying is that if we really look at it
those are like
two separate issues
and and so what i mean is that like you
can tackle both of those and your
anxiety can get better by
preventing the original panic attack or
working through that original panic
attack
but also by like re-learning how to deal
with that
original panic attack does that make
sense
yes okay and then kind of the last thing
or two more things that we can kind of
touch on and i know it's kind of
scattered when i'm kind of pointing out
i'm gonna use the shotgun approach and
then you let me know like what you're
interested in okay
um so is that we can get to the origins
so i can ask you like you know what was
going on in your teenage years what was
your upbringing like
what was your first panic attack like
what happened when your wife got
pregnant
and we can kind of you kind of say
subconsciously there has to be a
connection
you're right by the way and so we can
kind of dig into that and maybe help you
see that connection if you want to a lot
of people do that kind of stuff like
those are the kinds of conversations
that a lot of people
benefit from on stream but we don't have
to do that and then the last thing that
we can talk about is like a little bit
about the physiology of
anxiety and so almost like a
neuroscience perspective like you're
you're using these phrases like i don't
feel like i'm in my own skin
and like what is actually happening in
your body what is happening in your
brain
to create these kinds of sensations of
like depersonalization
where you feel like you're not in
reality anymore and then that begs the
question what is reality and what is you
so there's sort of like this physiologic
neuroscience like weirdly spiritual
you know like let's talk about the
nature of the universe in existence
men so there's like kind of that tact
too and i think these are all
like useful things to talk about it's
kind of like
what you were interested in um
let's see here um i
i kind of i kind of feel like we should
go with the first one and
it's gonna sound really weird but i feel
like that is the one that is gonna like
make me
like the most anxious to talk about
because i like have only talked about it
like once or twice like
you know like um number one if you
wanted to know more about like my
childhood i'm
more than happy to tell you but like the
manner and like how i had a panic attack
and stuff like it kind of still scares
me to this day
um so maybe like getting that out and
like having you
touch up on it would maybe make me feel
better i don't know
okay good so so beautiful
so now chuck we're gonna be scientists
okay we're gonna party up
we're gonna we're gonna be scientists so
i want you to pay attention
notice your fear and wanting to talk
about it
notice that you're pushing yourself in
spite of your fear
and what i want you to keep track of
because you're the only one that can do
this
is notice what happens to your various
thoughts and emotions
as we talk about it so do things get
better
do they get worse both are possibilities
do they feel the same
do some things get better and some
things feel relieving like all kinds of
stuff okay
so let's just see if it does help
because maybe if it does help
maybe you sh you know we can talk a
little bit about seeing a therapist
more long term okay sure so tell me
about your childhood bro
um where should i start
i don't know what was growing up like um
i'm sorry i guess
i would um my my parents eventually
ended up getting divorced
um so i would say that that was not a
very good marriage
um it was actually like pretty openly
bad like i feel like they would actually
fight quite a bit
um it was my dad was like a little like
ocd crazy
what does that mean like if if something
wasn't like
completely straight or not done his way
like it was a problem
like it was like um
maybe like military status like you know
you walk in the house she was off at the
door if you leave your bedroom
it has to be perfect we weren't allowed
to sit on our beds unless it was bedtime
um so we would literally watch tv in our
rooms on the floor um
if we were to leave our house we would
have to have bedroom checks
to like make sure it was straight enough
in order for us to be able to leave
um there would be times where like we
would eat dinner
and if i wasn't eating fast enough like
if i didn't like
finish my food by a certain time i would
have to go to bed like my dad would like
put a timer on
um before i say all this i should
probably say i actually have a good
relationship with my dad now like i know
that you know when he was younger he was
kind of like i don't want to say crazy
but you know he was a little
his methods probably weren't the best
for parenting sure sure but
you know we're definitely uh we're
definitely past that
okay but i would say you know my sister
and i probably favored my mom
like my dad would go away for work and
we would always be like pretty happy
when he was gone
we would stay up late and you know
um yeah do you remember what it
felt like like when you were eating your
food
i didn't like it i was i was like there
was i actually this thing
for a long time where i wouldn't eat the
last bite of my food
like it was like i don't know why
because i feel like
i i think one time i like overeat and
threw up but like i don't know i there
was
for a long time i wouldn't eat the last
bite of my food
because i felt like uh maybe i would
throw up or maybe
i'd like since i wasn't being forced to
i didn't have to i don't know but i just
i do remember that was like a part of
like a mindset for a while
okay so
um can i ask you a couple more questions
yeah for sure
i'm gonna need a second to try to find
the right question is that okay
what was it like growing up with a dad
like that
i mean for me it was normal i guess like
i didn't i didn't
really think much of it at the time
um i definitely spent like a lot of time
at friends houses like
i would almost say like a few of my
friends parents like would have like
literally adopted me or considered me
their kid at the time like i would i
would be there all the time i had like a
bunch of different friends where i would
be there non-stop stay over nonstop
almost every single weekend i probably
never stayed home wow
not even because like i didn't want to
be home but because i enjoyed like you
know i would say my other friend's house
is like way more
like more gym yeah what did you enjoy
about being there
i mean probably spending time with my
friends more freedom
in general um you know i just felt like
we got to do a lot more
like my house was like always really
strict when my dad was home
um and i wouldn't say it was very fun
yeah
um and i actually remember one time
specifically this is probably like a
little off topic and completely random
but my mom came home with like a
video game for computers called mech
wars
and my dad made her go back to the store
and take it back and specifically said
computers are not
meant for video games and i still i
still give them hell for that comment to
this day because i'm like that's how i
make my living now but
yeah you know so sometimes i would go to
my friends houses and play computer
games
and what do you do you remember how you
felt when your dad made your mom do that
probably pretty sad i was like damn that
game looks super awesome
and it's funny because i would play
video games on my computer all the time
but it was just like pinball and stuff
like that
and this came with the computer and i
don't think he knew
yeah so it sounds like there were you
know
and what did they fight about
everything i can't remember specific
arguments but they just did not
get along very well when i was in eighth
grade
okay when you were 13 yeah just about
yeah when was your first panic attack
like 16 okay but i i will say and like
this is uh
this is um you know maybe not relevant
but like
i experienced my first panic attack when
i was smoking weed
so it's actually very relevant
okay we can talk about that too um
so uh
i'm gonna just i'm trying to figure out
how to
goose step around this but i just gonna
come out so it sounds like you know you
grew up in a household that breeds
anxious kids
potentially i mean my my mom dealt with
uh
pretty bad anxiety my sister deals with
anxiety depression
and uh i deal with anxiety so it's you
know
possibly pass down as well but yeah so
sure there's a hereditary component so
there's a really interesting study
kind of bizarre so they take kids who
are anxious
and parents who are anxious and what
they actually do is give anxiety
medication to the parents and then the
kids anxiety goes down
interesting gets almost the same
therapeutic benefit as medicating the
kid
and and it's really weird but like
anxiety is sort of you know
kids are very attuned to their parents
and so like when the parent is anxious
like imagine you're six years old and
like your mom is like
freaking out right like what like the
kid is gonna be like
what's wrong i'm freaking out i don't
understand what's going on but i can
tell it's bad
it's a really fascinating study but what
i'm kind of really noticing is that like
if we think about anxiety what i think
about
as of anxiety is like anticipation of
danger
so if you really think about you know i
know it sounds kind of like a weird
question but
why do human beings get anxious like why
like but we have parts of our brain that
make us anxious and why does our brain
do that and it's because anxiety is
actually a protective mechanism
so our brain's capacity to anticipate
danger actually protects us
and what i'm actually noticing is that
your house was sort of a dangerous place
like if you sit on the bed like you got
like you like you know i don't i mean
this may be so booked into you
but like you know i can't imagine what
it's like to
live in a house where like if you sit in
your bed like what would your dad do
it wouldn't like hurt us but we'd
probably get yelled at and right
to go up on that even more like i know i
know everything that i dealt with
as a kid was obviously very strange and
i'm i'm like pretty close with my wife
and her dad and like we kind of like
you know we talk about it and laugh
about it and like when we're at family
dinners like
i tell my dad the crazy stuff he did
he's like that never happened
you know you know we laugh about it but
um
he says that never happened doesn't
bother me because me and my sister know
it was true you know we don't
we're not making this stuff up um but
when
we were like living there like we were
only allowed to eat at like designated
eat times
and i mean like there was breakfast
lunch and dinner and there was no in
between
and we would we would literally sneak
snacks
um and because we'd be hungry and like
eventually when my parents got divorced
um i lived my dad for the first year and
i didn't like it because my mom and my
sister weren't there
so i ended up living my mom and
eventually my dad found like all these
hidden like snack wrappers and trash
in my closet because if we threw him in
the trash you would see him
like legit and i remember going to bed
hungry and i would have to
like tell my mom like i'm hungry and she
would have to sneak me food
like she would literally sneak me like
ham and cheese and stuff like in my bed
just so i wouldn't go to bed hungry
do you remember how you felt when you
were hungry and she was doing that
no like i said i didn't i just thought
my dad was super strict
and you know my mom wasn't strict like
that was my thought process it wasn't
like
my dad is a horrible human being and
people are probably thinking that and i
don't really want them to think that
you know looking back at it he was
definitely kind of a dick but
i don't know if it's how he was you know
raised and whatnot
my grandpa was like the nicest guy on
earth by the way so i don't know
i don't know if that's where he got it
from but
yeah so um i want to just say a couple
of things so first
is that you know sometimes when people
come on stream and they share
like things from their upbringing like
they can paint their parents to be in a
really bad light
and that's not really what we're here
for oh yeah
and and so i think it's like especially
as children
you know i'm sure your dad did all kinds
of awesome stuff too we're just not
talking about it
it actually sounds like or maybe not
maybe
i mean he used to play baseball with me
and take me to my games and stuff like
that but
yeah i mean there was probably some
there's probably some
you know awesome stuff in there all
right so let's just
let's you know we're not we're not here
to bash your dad and at the same time i
think it's really important
to not let protecting
a parent get in the way of your
authentic experience of growing right
yeah
right um but i mean i i
this is gonna sound kind of weird chuck
but like you know you kind of grew up in
a [ __ ] up household bro
i've i've gotten that before right and
and so i think the the important thing
there is that like i could imagine
like i could just imagine like when i
put myself in your shoes like having
you know it sounds like and i i don't i
know this is gonna make your dad
sound like in a bad light but it
actually like reminds me like i've
worked with some people who are like
holocaust survivors and like they're
like you know they're being snuck
food like living in like they're like in
a closet
and someone has to like sneak them food
you know like being snuck food is like
it's just not a common experience
yeah as as a father i couldn't imagine
like my kid you know
saying he's hungry and i'm like no go to
bed like it's not time to eat like
it's like absolutely right and and so
the other interesting thing is like
what i'm hearing from you chuck is that
the anxiety is like baked into you
possibly yeah and the interesting thing
is if you really think about it like
what would happen
if your dad caught your mom sneaking you
ham and cheese
i don't know if i yelled her right so
in that and so the tricky thing here is
that i'm asking you how you felt
but i think it was so normalized to be
anxious
and then just let's not even talk let's
separate the emotion from it for a
second
it was such a normal part of your
thought process
to anticipate danger and to be in danger
what do you think about that it's just
like it's just how the household worked
right it's like
now i'm home dad can't see me playing
ping pong
gotta gotta be not anxious i gotta
anticipate that danger
dad can't see me sit on my bed oh crap i
threw my book on my bed i better
clean it up before dad sees the
impression of the weight of the book on
my bed
if i eat too fast i'm gonna puke if i
eat too slow
i'm not gonna get to eat there's like
danger anticipation like
everywhere you look in the household
possibly
created like a lot of my overthinking
potentially like i wouldn't say that i
had like anxious thoughts back then
but it's maybe uh helped like
form the way that i think today and if
that makes sense absolutely
i think it makes a lot of sense i think
the way that you think today
is a survival adaptation from how you
grew up
what do you think about that it's very
possible yeah
right so like your anxiety isn't an
enemy
it's just like when i'm you know so this
is how our mind works it's kind of like
cement
so like the early changes in our mind
mind solidify later in time it's like
why
if you think about like learning how to
walk do you know how to walk
i think so yeah how solidly do you know
how to walk
some people say not very well since i
walk on my toes
but i get i get from a to b yeah right
so
so when we think about it like so much
fundamental programming is laid down
like our capacity for language
our capacity to understand what what do
you do with your face right now
what is that what do we call that
i think i'm just smiling yeah but what
is that how did you how did you learn
how to do that
i think it's just programmed yeah right
it's so baked in
yeah and so what i'm noticing is that
early on
because here's the thing those are just
the things that you remember and it
sounds like your dad has gotten better
over time
yeah he's all right now right so like i
don't even know like what he did
when you you know pooped your pants when
you were one
honestly he comes over and he sees my
kids
and like i'm convinced he didn't have
because this guy is you know like i love
my dad but he doesn't know how to talk
to him he doesn't know how to hold him
he doesn't know how to like it's just
like
hey you guys are my grandkids you're
awesome but it's like
you know yeah so it looks like he has no
idea what's going on
i'm gonna assume that my mom took care
of everything so chuck i'm gonna ask you
a question
what would it be like you have a son i
have two sons actually
oh oh so you have two sons what would it
be
like for them if they
never interacted with their dad or their
dad never took care of them
i think they would be pretty sad i'm
pretty awesome
you certainly love that i don't i don't
think they would be sad because they
wouldn't know
oh right well i feel like now you're
throwing shade at me no i'm just kidding
no no but i'm saying i'm saying like
like so so this is
i think for you there were a lot of
things that i think you missed out on
that you don't even realize you missed
out on because but you certainly miss
out like it would be
it they wouldn't be sad it would be sad
for them right does that make sense
yeah and like um like i said my my
wife's dad comes here a lot
um and we talk about stories of like
what they did with
as like kids and what he did for them
and i'm like they'd be like yeah you
never do this and i'm like
no you know so definitely
i'm very aware you know the childhood i
had
right it's kind of weird because it's
not even like you you sort of know
intellectually you missed out but like
you didn't miss out
kind of emotionally because it was just
normal for you
but i am noticing that there's a you
know there's a lot of evidence that
your mind learned how to anticipate
danger
and that you were kind of like a home
base your place of safety required a lot
of vigilance
so here's another term that i'm going to
toss out which i think describes your
anxiety very well
hyper vigilance what do you think
so vigilance means you know to be
watchful
and hyper is to be like constantly
watchful constantly on guard
do you think that describes what happens
in your mind
uh possibly possibly i still kind of
feel like
i mean i guess i'm constantly on guard
of like my own emotions
per se like you know not necessarily
like my environment and stuff like
i'm generally pretty easygoing like i
would say like my wife is like
way more like you know what's going on
around me you know what's this what's
that
i'm just constantly on guard like okay i
don't want to have a panic attack right
now like you know
yeah that's like so i'm noticing that
the guard is internal instead of
external
like you're manning the walls of your
own mind to make sure that the bucking
bronco doesn't get in
[Music]
um how did it feel to talk about your
upbringing
honestly it doesn't it doesn't really
bother me too much like that wasn't the
thing that i was actually too nervous
about because i i've talked about it
before
like you know even on stream maybe not
too often you know i've talked about
like my friends obviously you know knew
me and kind of knew my dad was a little
crazy and my wife and every i actually
just think it's funny at this point
you know okay okay um so i would i would
say things didn't necessarily get better
but they also didn't get worse you know
okay
okay so it sounds like and what's your
understanding of why you're smiling
right now
because i i just think it's funny like
okay yeah this is
yeah i guess you either laugh or cry and
uh yep
yeah i just i don't know i've told these
stories a thousand times like at this
point like i i really do
think they're kind of funny have you
cried about them
maybe i if if i did i couldn't remember
okay
i doubt i did but yeah and so it sounds
like you were
very nervous about sharing something
else can you help us understand what
that is we don't necessarily have to
share it i'm just curious what we're
doing
i'm okay to share it um but like the way
i like experience my first panic attack
and stuff like
it's just it's scary it's you know i i
remember it so
so vividly and uh you know exactly what
was going on in my brain and just like
it was just a lot
it's a lot i think like that's like my
my fear to like get back to that place i
guess
are you afraid that if we talk about it
you'll let the bucking bronco back into
your mind
not necessarily because i feel like um i
i have talked about it before
um but i was like definitely in a better
mind state and if that makes sense like
so
this is this is the series of events
that happen like my sister growing up
like
kind of i think she dealt with our our
childhood differently like she kind of
like you know did smoke and did drink at
a younger age and stuff like that
and i saw that and i didn't really like
want to be a part of that
and um you know like my friends smoked
and stuff and i i just didn't care like
my friends would drink i didn't want to
my friends would smoke and i didn't want
to
and one day one of my friends convinced
me to smoke and we smoked it was chill
and then he convinced me again
and i had like that really terrible
experience which i can get to
into into more detail and you know i
just kind of chalked it up as like wow
like that was bad they're like yeah you
know you had a tough time you know it's
whatever
but it didn't really affect me you know
i mean it didn't affect me and then i
tried smoking again it was fine and i
tried smoking again and then that's when
that's when the problems occurred it was
the fourth time and i remember
what happened was like i started
experiencing like what i experienced the
first time
and i was in someone's house and i went
outside and i sat there in the freezing
cold
shivering like you know for like an hour
like
and it didn't take control of me like it
did the first time
but like it kept feeling like it was and
but i remember during that time having
the thought process what is this what if
this never goes away
and as soon as that thought went into my
mind
i've had to deal with it forever and i
remember like you know the next few days
going out
like like just being in random people's
car things that i never would have
thought about before like what if i have
a panic attack right now
you know and then um for like a week it
went away
like completely and i mean like not even
it wasn't even thought in my mind and i
remember
you know i don't i don't know what
caused it but i just remember that
morning like i would
i was over at my friend's house we
stayed up all morning we were playing
basketball in the morning
and later that night we went to a movie
theater and someone in the movie theater
came up to me
they're like you're cedu and i lost it
completely lost it like i i felt all
those feelings coming back i don't know
if i was in shock or what i
i i ran out of the movie theater and i
was crying i had to get my sister picked
me up and
you know ever since then like it was
always a
thought in my mind like almost i would
say almost
every single day like there was a
thought in my mind that i might have a
panic attack
like since that that day what when you
said the feelings came up what what does
that mean
how do i explain it it feels like it
almost feels like
i'm like i'm like looking at things
through my mind not my eyes like i i
i'm experiencing things around me like
it just it feels like
everything stops and i could explain to
you like what happens like
what happened in my first panic attack
but um when i feel like i'm having a
panic attack it feels like everything
stops like
and in my original panic attack i froze
like and i felt like you know it wasn't
reality but so i remember
very specifically my first panic attack
i was eating bacon cheddar cheese fries
they were one of my favorite meals
and i remember swallowing one and
my mind envisioned it going down my
throat like i could see it today
like you know i mean things that don't
even make sense and i remember
sitting up and i said oh my god i'm
gonna die
and my friend my friend immediately
like reacted to that like what what what
don't say that don't say that like
and that scared me even more and i
remember like freaking out saying like
oh my god i'm gonna die i'm gonna die
and i had bunk beds and i started
punching my bunk beds as hard as i could
because i i didn't feel
like you know i wanted to feel something
and then i remember like
literally like standing up like hovered
over like this
and i don't know why but this was my
thought process
i was i was on trial for life and death
and i remember
being on a stage and having a full
audience around me and i had to plea my
case why i shouldn't die today
and i was literally pleading like you
know what like there's a school
girl i really like in school like i
never talked to her i swear i'm gonna
talk to her like
and i was trying to beg to not die
like that was my that was my first panic
attack and
you know i just i can still like
remember everything around me and like
clearly um yeah it was it was pretty bad
it was pretty bad and then um you know
eventually i kind of like
snapped out of it i would say and i like
took a cold shower and i remember like
some of the feelings coming back on in
the shower where like
you know it felt like i was kind of like
getting like sucked in again almost and
then i would just be like nope i'm fine
like you're gonna be good
but that was my first panic attack and
it was uh that's what i'm afraid of i
guess is like losing full control to
where like
i felt like i couldn't move like i don't
like i swear i felt like i was stoned
like i couldn't move like i was just
stuck in place
have you talked to you the person who
prescribes your medication about this
no i don't know if i necessarily like
that guy
i told him like my anxieties about
anxiety he's like no it's not i'm like
okay you just don't really want to
listen you just want to prescribe
medicine like
wait when he said your anxiety is about
anxiety and he said no it's not yeah it
didn't
yeah like you know i'm i'm not
i don't really think he's like the
person for me to talk to okay i mean
okay i think he just prescribes medicine
and you know he's like no
no it's not like there's there's there's
a different route and i'm like
you know i think about this stuff a lot
and i kind of feel like i know what the
route is
but what's the route i kind of feel like
that was the route right there i feel
like that was damn right it is
yeah i feel like that was the day that
like you know like i always tell myself
i wish i never smoked weed and
you know but i feel like eventually i
would have dealt with this problem
anyway
because it's it's happened before
without smoking you know
not not to that extent but can i think
for a second
yeah take your time
so um chuck i i want to just acknowledge
something for a second so i think that
like what i'm about to say
is it's still sort of
for educational purposes but it's gonna
use a lot of diagnostic language
and i would really hesitate to say this
for a couple of reasons
the main reason that i'm i'm gonna offer
to share something in a moment
is because you do have a provider and i
think that ultimately
our goal here on stream is to try to
like help you
right so i want to share sort of a
different perspective based on some of
the attributes that you're sharing
which i definitely think you should
follow up with a medical professional
think about it and follow up with a
medical professional
and and because you know we don't really
diagnose or treat things on stream but i
feel like i have an ethical
responsibility to share with you another
perspective
for looking at your anxiety
um is that okay yeah
so what you're describing to me because
you were smoking marijuana so like
sometimes when people
so now we're gonna go real general okay
and i want you to just kind of think
about this and figure out whether this
is
you know applies to you or not you know
in a different scenario if you were
actually my patient i would tunnel down
into this more
and i think it's a useful thing for you
to tunnel down with a provider
unfortunately i can't do it that with
you
but i feel like i would be honestly
doing you an ethical disservice if i at
least didn't float this idea and give
you the opportunity
to talk to a licensed professional about
it is that okay
yeah yeah definitely so when we smoke
marijuana
marijuana actually has two kind of
components
one is sort of a pro-psychotic component
and one is an antipsychotic component
and there's a there's a version of
marijuana called k2 which is synthetic
marijuana
and the problem with synthetic marijuana
is that if normal marijuana has like thc
and cbd and has a bunch of other
compounds
but basically depending on the blend of
thc and cbd
it has a certain propensity to like
because you know like pot makes people
paranoid right
so some of that paranoia is kind of like
more in line with psychosis
and and so it when people use synthetic
k2
the problem with k2 it like makes people
like really freaking psychotic and they
get
you know brought to the er really steer
clear of k2 and
in general marijuana as well um
but what i'm really hearing from you
doesn't sound like a panic attack it
sounds like sort of like more like a bad
trip does that make sense
yes and so sometimes what happens with
people who have bad trips
is not that they have anxiety so we call
it anxiety
but what i'm almost hearing is like a
traumatic experience from a bad trip
and really what i'm hearing sounds to me
like i think you need a
far more thorough kind of diagnostic
with someone who listens
so like what we're dealing with may be
an anxiety disorder
not really our place to determine here
but could also be ptsd from
a bad trip and this is where sometimes
from a treatment perspective it's really
important to have a clinician who
listens to you
because the treatments are actually
quite different
and and i don't know that you're ever
like like approaching it as an anxiety
disorder and approaching it
as ptsd from a bad trip are gonna like
help you
approach it in different ways and may
actually help you
and if you're not getting better and
this is also just general principles now
okay
so if you're working with a psychiatric
provider and you're not getting better
to your satisfaction i strongly
encourage
everyone out there to bring up your
dissatisfaction with the psychiatric
provider
because a lot of times this is you know
not really specific to you really at
this point but
a lot of times like you know as a
psychiatric provider
i ask you how's the medication working
and most people like
it's working some you know it's not
perfect but it seems to be doing a good
job
and then as a clinician i don't know if
that's just like your anxiety is so
severe and we're kind of like okay with
this
or if what i should do as a clinician is
sit down and rethink your diagnosis
that may be a different kind of like why
are we wiping on the raid
you know is it like is it that you know
we're we're hitting the dps or are we
messing up at the dps race
or is it that our comp is messed up or
like there are all kinds of differential
diagnoses
for why the rate is not succeeding and
sometimes
that involves like just further anxiety
treatment
but if we start to treat your anxiety
double down on anxiety treatment when
what you really have is
ptsd related to like uh like a psychotic
hallucinatory experience
those are different things and they can
both look
like anxiety but this is where you know
out of
everyone that i've ever talked to on
stream i would encourage you
the most to go and really get like
re-evaluated or have a really good
in-depth conversation
with a licensed mental health
professional about your situation
and i would share this stuff with them
because in a sense it's not their
fault it
you know you can't hold them accountable
if you're not sharing
information so i would really go and
share this experience
and then kind of like you know find
someone that you like and you trust
and then really kind of get a good like
thorough diagnostic evaluation which
sometimes can take hours
so can happen over the course of weeks
and things like that but what i'm
hearing right now
just really makes me concerned that you
know what we're talking about is like
you know this intense moment where you
were like
in this courtroom like that's like
divorced from reality
right like that wasn't actually
happening and this is what's kind of
interesting is when people have like
hallucinations and stuff when they use
substances it
feels real and the impact on your brain
even if it's not real your brain
experiences it does that make sense
definitely yeah and so the effects on
your neurochemistry
in the way that your brain wires are as
if it's real
and this also gets into a whole other
thing about like what is the nature of
reality and dreams and all this kind of
crap
we had a good conversation with ludwig
about it that if you want to go back and
watch like it may give you some insight
into this
but at this point i just want to check
in with you what do you think about
what we're talking about chuck in
regards to what like just like this
conversation
like how do you feel about where we are
i mean i guess i feel okay
i wouldn't i wouldn't say i i feel like
any type of way about it
um i would say like i was definitely a
little nervous to share
like what i went through i'm not really
sure why but
um you know didn't it didn't really like
you know because i i thought i've been
thinking about this for like the whole
week like you know is he gonna ask me
like how i experienced my first panic
attack and stuff like that
and then you know my brain kind of goes
down the road of like you know thinking
about him like oh crap i don't really
want to think about this you know but
um i don't know and i definitely um
i definitely kind of agree with you i i
do think to a certain extent
i do have anxiety because um
i just kind of do feel like i deal with
every everyday stress and stuff and i do
think the medication is helping me
um but in the same sense i do think that
like i do have that like trauma of like
that's not where i want to get back to
like that's yeah that's there's a living
crap out of me
yeah so so just so you understand like
you know this hyper vigilance that i
referenced earlier is really a feature
of ptsd
so like what happens if you think about
a traumatic event
like you know if i've been sexually
assaulted in a parking lot
like i'm going to steer like i never
want to be in a parking lot at night
again like i will come hell or high
water i will avoid that situation at all
costs
and what i'm really like so early on
when i mentioned agoraphobia to you
remember like
agoraphobia is about avoidance
it's all about avoidance and what i'm
hearing when we talk about the bucking
bronco
and ignoring your thoughts it's about
avoidance avoidance avoidance
so could this be an anxiety disorder
absolutely could this be
uh like you know hallucinator like a
marijuana-induced ptsd
absolutely and that's something where i
think really like you deserve
to have someone a licensed mental health
professional sit down with you and
really talk through that
um do you what was it like to actually
share that experience
it was all right i mean i've shared it
before to people
uh who are close to me obviously like
you know i was with my friend at the
time
you know during it um but i mean yeah
well i guess it wasn't as bad as i
thought it was gonna be
like i feel like i'm kind of relaxed
right now for the most part
what do you mean by relaxed do you mean
your baseline level of anxiety
or do you mean relaxed
i guess in these days it's kind of hard
to tell a difference
because i kind of feel like it's always
there yeah i understand that so like i
want to just point something out to you
you've never used the word
relaxed today
so like i think that that's the right
word i think you actually
are somewhat relaxed and the reason that
i think you should see a therapist is
because this is how therapy works
right right so like when you share the
thoughts that you have inside
you know remember how we talked about
and this isn't
not there are many ways to do this but i
want to just explain this principle of
the mind
which is remember we were talking about
when you add energy to the mind
the anxiety gets worse so one of the
ways that we can vent
energy from the mind is through things
like therapy
but essentially what you're doing is
letting that excess energy out
so like their thoughts and i don't know
if this makes sense this is really more
like a yogic
perspective so you can journal for
example or you could do therapy
or you could share it with a friend the
point is that you want to vent because
right now what happens when you have
thoughts
is they just bounce around in your head
and they have nowhere to go
does that make sense yep and so what you
need to do it doesn't matter whether
it's actually therapy or not but like
you just need some way to vent the
energy in the mind
and as you vent the energy in the mind
whether through journaling through
therapy through talking through a friend
doesn't
you can talk to your dog if you want to
like it doesn't really matter like it's
not about
who's on the other end it's about
venting it from your mind and then
you're gonna feel more relaxed
because it's no longer bouncing around
now the reason to do therapy is because
the person
on the other end of the table unlike a
dog is gonna be
trained at helping you vent
right what are you thinking now you
started smiling
uh my dogs are definitely not trained in
anything so
[Laughter]
they definitely they're definitely not
gonna be helping me out with anything
yeah how many dogs do you have i have
four
okay wow that's a lot man it's a lot of
dogs yep
four dogs two kids two cats oh and cats
wow so that's
busy it is very busy
and married to boot what's up
i said and married on top of that sir
yep yep
yeah wow wow it sounds like you have
quite a full life chuck
i do and i actually like it quite a bit
you know i i really do like my life i'm
i'm very you know lucky to be able to do
what i do and you know
uh afford to even have you know this
many
things relying on me um
but yeah it's just uh this is this is i
guess the one the one little
area in which i struggle with them
yeah can can we talk about when your
wife was pregnant
sure so what happened then
i mean it's hard for me to say i guess
like maybe i'm not like the greatest at
like
um i'm not the greatest at uh
i guess picking up on my emotions but i
definitely
just i started to notice like those
feelings like of anxiety like hitting me
like randomly
like you know and almost like it was
like building up like
like i was playing in like hockey
leagues and i just remember like playing
hockey and be like
feeling kind of anxious right now like
this is abnormal
like you know like you know it wasn't
just like the thoughts like oh i don't
have
like i was kind of feeling it like
almost like a panic attack was coming on
and like i said i'm pretty good at like
deterring those now just because like
as afraid as i am of them happening i'm
also like fully aware of like when
they're happening and i
and i like you know understand like
you know the more you feed in the worst
it's going to be just got to take deep
breaths and just
you know do what you got to do um
and i just it's almost like it's almost
like weird how it happened but
um you know i don't i also don't talk
about this very often but
i'm religious and i go to church and
stuff and i was just sitting in church
one day
um you know with my wife and my my dad
and
his wife his new wife and it just hit me
and i didn't have a panic attack it
didn't hit me like that
it just hit me like a wrecking ball of
nervousness where i'm just like you know
i couldn't stop shaking i couldn't stop
thinking and it's like it was like a
completely different experience of what
i experienced as my panic attack
does that make sense yeah so tell me
what was your experience of being hit
what did you get hit by it just it just
felt like
constant overthinking constant
nervousness like
i i couldn't even tell you what i was
thinking at the time but like that was
like the
the day that i kind of felt like you
know broke the broke the camel's back or
you know stroller broke the back and i
just remember
going home that night and just being
like unbelievably
nervous and i couldn't stop over
thinking and um
um you know i i have taken like you know
small dosages of xanax before
because you know i've had like this
issue for a long time it's been
prescribed i really don't take it almost
ever like literally almost ever
and i had like you know half of like a
small dose of one just kind of calm me
down a little bit
and i just kind of thought like
um i guess just like random stuff like
this this is completely like
maybe irrelevant but like one of the
thoughts in my mind was like
the lead singer of linkin park or maybe
not the lead singer but he like recently
committed suicide and i'm like
is this why is it is this what he was
dealing with like that that thought has
crossed my mind before too where it's
like
is this what people you know decide to
say like they can't take it anymore and
like that obviously really scared me and
um yeah it's just
you know that day it never like really
got better like that was the day where
for months
i couldn't live my life like literally
every single day i would wake up
first thing on my mind i would i sleep
like a rock so i would go to sleep and i
wake up
shaking and the first thing on my mind
is like okay i'm anxious okay like i'm
gonna have panic attack today
like even even like even today like the
first thing when i open my mind
the first word on my in my my head is
anxiety
every single day like and it wasn't
always like that you know sometimes i
could wake up and
i wouldn't think about it for a few
hours but it is literally the
default thought process in my brain
right now is just that word
like anxiety sounds angry
it sucks i i just don't like it you know
it bothers me
i don't want it to be there you know i
wake up in the morning with my kids
or my dogs or whatever reasons the first
thing i think about
you know it's what i got to think about
before i go to sleep and you know it's
like
i just don't like most of the time i
will say it's definitely better as of
recently
i don't have what i want to call it my
peace of mind i don't have my mind just
resting thinking about
useless stuff you know it's just it's
just always
lasered in on this subject most of the
time sometimes i do
and sometimes i'll literally like get a
break and i'll be like
wow i was thinking about random stuff
well now that i'm thinking about this
now it's time to think about anxiety
like it literally like circles back like
oh wow i had a break i can't believe i
had a break
now i'm not gonna have a break because
i'm overthinking it like
uh chuck is there a part of you that's
afraid that like something fundamentally
broke that day and will never be fixed
maybe essentially like i do think like
you know maybe i'll never have like what
was my normal
um i think like maybe that's kind of
like why sometimes i
i'm actually afraid to get help because
what if it doesn't help
you know what if all the stuff that is
supposed to help me
doesn't help
so what i'm hearing is that you know if
you get help if you as long as you're
not getting help you're delaying
final doom potentially uh
um you know a good reason to avoid help
yeah i just
yeah i'm just stuck in a loophole it
feels like that just doesn't end
i'm sorry bro yeah i appreciate it
can i offer a couple of thoughts
absolutely
so i don't think you are broken
i think what you have can be fixed
um i think that the mind has an amazing
reparative quality
um the body has an amazing reparative
quality
i think that um somehow what what you're
doing is you're doing like
end game content at level 52 that's what
it feels like to me
i actually feel like you're doing
remarkably well given how much you've
handicapped yourself
i think it's really amazing that you've
uh you know managed to
continue to build a life and not let
what sounds like truly crippling levels
of anxiety
and and by crippling what i mean is like
not that they're crippling in their
intensity but they're like
you sound to be like a dude who's been
you know raiding for the last three
years
in one encounter
like you've just been like it's a
marathon man like i'm hearing a marathon
of just never ending and like somehow
you know you're still like you haven't
wiped yet
and and it's it's kind of like what i'm
hearing from you in terms of
you know getting treatment is that
there's a lot of like resistance
and that resistance comes from first of
all the fear that like what if this
doesn't help because then you're like
truly sol like
like it's it's kind of interesting but
sometimes the reason that we don't
shoot our shot is because if we fail
then we've got nothing
you know i see this oddly enough in the
weirdest places like people who
like have a crush and like as long as i
don't get rejected there's
always the chance that something will
happen but if i shoot my shot
and they say no it's like then i'm truly
finished
right and and so i sort of get where
you're coming from because i think that
there is
that too is like by the way a product of
your mind it's not like it's not like
you know you're incorrect i imagine that
there have been experiences in your life
where you've like
put yourself out there like and this
could be like really small kind of
insignificant things but like where you
told your dad dad i'm hungry
and he's like no way you're getting food
it didn't exactly happen like that but
yeah right and so like your mind learned
early on that like
and then maybe even like your mom would
have said oh well like now that you
asked your dad i can't sneak it for you
but in limbo there's like there's some
kind of
you know in limbo we can actually
benefit
um so so i sort of get that you're kind
of feeling like fatalistic about it
um i think that a lot of your fears are
also kind of coming in there where like
there's this
like you know this mention this thing
about linkin park and it's sort of like
if i try to get help and it doesn't work
what i
see you kind of being afraid of is then
you wind up where that guy was
i'm very afraid of that yeah right so so
this is where like
you know
i can understand that you're afraid of
it but that's actually what gives me
hope
because that crap we can deal with like
you know deal
like like chuck the reason i'm hopeful
for you is because i think you actually
haven't you're i mean there you are in
the level 60 raid
being level 52 and you're like i don't
know if i can win and what i see is like
bro you can level you can gain eight
levels
there's still a lot of things that you
can try it sounds like you haven't tried
psychotherapy
you know it sounds like maybe a
reformulation of your diagnosis
it sounds like like continuing to learn
like different kinds of breathing
practices
learning meditation doing some of this
exploratory work
potentially journaling or other things
there's a lot of stuff
that you can still do so oddly enough
even though you feel like a little bit
hopeless
or really what i'm getting from you is
that you don't want to roll the dice and
wind up hopeless
yeah um but what i'm really seeing is
that there's like you're kind of like
i'm opening up your character and like
i'm seeing that you have a sword and
shield equipped but you don't
you don't even have a helmet on and like
you don't even have boots on
and it's like there's a lot you can do
because then then what it's almost like
you're going into a raid and you're like
okay i can wipe and at least i have an
excuse for wiping because i don't even
have the right gear
but if i gear up properly and then i
wipe well then like then i can't clear
it
right like i have nothing nothing left
no excuses does that make sense or is
that just is my analogy just getting
worse and worse and worse
i but i understand so so those are the
things that actually make me really
hopeful for you that i think if you like
you know if you
put on if you fill up every gear slot
don't even worry about like enchanting
and putting in gems and crap like that
because you have all that too i mean
we're talking
about basics we're not even talking
about i mean there are some people who
will come in and we'll have like five
years of therapy under their belt
and i'm still hopeful because they
haven't tried this other kind of therapy
and so there's a lot of like enchanting
and like you know gem
kind of work and like other kinds of set
bonuses
like we haven't even gotten there we're
talking about the basics we're talking
about
finding a therapist and like talking to
them about something like that how do
you feel about that
now anyway i guess i i guess i
can try and find a therapist like i said
you know i kind of for a while
felt like if i went to a therapist it
could like
i i don't know i it's something i didn't
necessarily want to do i guess like my
my thought process was like you know
does this make me crazy
like or something like that
yeah i mean how do you feel about that i
mean
i definitely can see uh
positive benefits of talking about it in
general you know i mean like in just
i'll tell you right now like generally
speaking twitch chat is not
all these you know in some sections it's
not the place to be vulnerable and like
me me like having that experience on
stream
and like getting like such a positive uh
benefit
out of it when i was like my most
vulnerable like
you know it definitely means that
talking about it has got to be
good because it made things better
you know so yeah so chuck i i think
first of all
i think that we all do this where i
think we
aren't entirely fair to twitch at
because i find that twitch chat
is almost like a kid where like the
the standard that you hold them up to is
the standard that they're going to live
up to
fair enough and and so sometimes you
know parents will come to me with
problematic kids so like i once had this
kid who was
you know having a lot of behavioral
problems and
my treatment for him was to hook him up
he was a
high school kid to set him up with an
internship at harvard medical school
and i was like this kid's problem is
that like
people are not treating they're treating
him too lowly
and that's what i found with with twitch
chat is when you when you act like
twitch chat is a bunch
of degenerate noobs they'll live up to
your expectations
and when you act like twitch chat can
save the world
they won't let you down whatever your
expectations are twitch chat will
arise to meet them i want to just talk
about one thing that you said that if
you see a therapist that kind of makes
you crazy
so this is going to sound kind of weird
that was like my thought process in a
sense yes it's a completely reasonable
thought process
so so i don't think that people are
crazy
like makes me crazy so i definitely
think that you know some of the
experiences you're describing
i think like crazy sort of fits right
but like i
i think this is important to understand
i i'm not trying to be judgmental but i
want you to understand that like
the experiences that you had are quite
drastic
and outside of the realm of normal
experience
and at the same time that doesn't say
anything about you as a person
and and i'm sorry if this you know is
offensive but
i want everyone to understand that our
mind has crazy experiences it's just
what our mind does and and i don't think
you're crazy you actually
sound shocked to me to be incredibly
sane and like i said
even some of these things like if i
ignore my anxiety and it'll go away
a lot of people will hear that and think
that it's stupid i think it's actually
brilliant
because i think it's what you have
learned that actually works
and one of the biggest things that i try
to explain to people is that the mind
oftentimes doesn't malfunction
the mind functions the best way it knows
how to and when we stop us
when we start when we stop assuming that
the mind is broken
is when we truly get power over it
that's when we truly understand it
that everything that your mind does
usually and not everything but a lot of
what your mind does is for a reason
and the more that we understand even
your resistance to therapy is completely
logical
right there's a lot of stuff riding on
that like you know
you're kind of like because your
strategy is to ignore it and it'll go
away going to therapy is like the
opposite of your winning strategy
so of course you're going to be
resistant to it and it's not it's not
dumb to be resistant to therapy it makes
a lot of sense
but now this is where i would ask you
you know how is your experience today
talking about it been it's been fine
like obviously i was like a little
nervous about being on here and stuff
but i'd
you know i i feel like uh i've benefited
being on here today and i knew i would
well number one i feel like uh i'm kind
of like getting over fears of sharing
um and i feel like that was something
that i
i definitely didn't do especially with
strangers um number two you know you
kind of
are uh making me feel like a little less
bad about myself saying like some of the
strategies and stuff that you know
i've been doing is okay and like i'm
having like normal thought processes and
stuff like that
so um i don't know it's just like
reassuring i guess
yeah why are you smiling now
i guess i like to be right i answered
your question right
i i i don't know i mean you're
you're the one who tell i asked you how
it's it's your answer
i don't know the right answer you have
the right answer chuck
um but yeah i mean i i think you've done
a really good job today i think it's
you know i do not envy you i think you
you come across
as an incredibly i think you're
incredibly strong chuck
like when i hear about the fullness of
your life like i understand that you're
grateful and stuff which is all awesome
but
it doesn't sound easy bro it's not
you know to wake up with anxiety every
day it just doesn't sound
easy for sure
yeah man and so what i'm really hoping i
i think you'd
you don't need to i mean i i don't think
you deserve to be
fight you know running that marathon and
this epic
never-ending struggle against anxiety
and my hope is that some of these like
really simple principles like
um
you know venting some of that energy
from your mind because
you know when you say that you wake up
and anxiety is the first thing there
it's because
it's like a gas that's trapped you've
like farted into a bottle
and you've closed the stopper and so
like
in that bottle is methane and it smells
bad and what you've really got to do is
just pop that cork and
let that bad boy rip you know
and and so there's a lot of negativity
in there there's a lot of fear in there
i understand that you
carry it every day with like you carry
it right that's the best word that i
have
i think it's an encumbrance problem more
than anything else
and and so i really hope that you can
you know i'd strongly ask you to
consider you know really seeing a
therapist
i definitely will look into it for sure
i guess um
i just got to try and find someone with
good reviews because i don't you know i
don't want to get someone that
isn't right for me i suppose sure so i
think that good reviews go a long way
but
fit goes a long way too so a couple of
rules of thumb and you know if you need
a little bit of support i think we've
got like a
you know quick guide or something we can
send your way about finding a good
therapist
we do have a creator coaching program
which normally at this point in the
interview i would recommend to some
people
i think you should actually see a
therapist though you're welcome to sign
up for our coaching program like they
work with things like
you know they're more specialized in
things like burnout and imposter
syndrome
and and those kinds of things so they
work with we have a contract with twitch
so twitch is actually sponsoring it
um but i think in your case i would go
see a therapist
i think that's really um and you could
try out coaching if you want to but
but i really think that you know mental
health treatment is
appropriate for you um does that sound
judgmental to you
no okay do you have any questions for me
how long no i know i sort of feel like
we're at a decent stopping point but at
the same time you know there are a lot
of other things that we could talk about
like i'm still you know i think another
thing that is worth digging into is the
sort of
whatever happened subconsciously when
your wife became pregnant
and and you know how that i think that
may be a conversation for another day
um because i don't know how short that's
going to be but
i sort of feel like this is a decent
stopping point because i've shared a lot
with you
and i'd love it if you could kind of
digest that and i don't wanna
how can i say this sometimes i reach a
point in a conversation where i i feel
if we keep talking
we may start to overwrite what we've
covered so far
and my real desire to potentially pause
is because i don't think that anything
we're going to
talk about now will outweigh the value
of what we've talked about
already if that makes sense
does that sound okay to you yeah
absolutely
do you have any questions i
i don't i'm not i'm not a question guy
really i just can't okay
i'm intrigued by what
what does that mean to not be a question
guy but so be it i'll just let that
curiosity ride but go ahead
i just i uh i just generally people
always ask when you're done do you have
any questions and i always i'm the one
that looks at my wife like
because i'm good to go okay okay so and
then um are you interested in learning
meditation
um possibly i suppose
um i didn't really like so honestly i
had like this
fear of kind of like being alone with my
thoughts
um but like since i do the deep
breathing like i kind of close my eyes
and it's gonna sound like the craziest
thing ever but
when i do my deep breathing i would say
maybe just briefly for a second if that
there's
no negativity there's no anxiety you
know i mean like it's just completely
it's like all these like random thoughts
that make absolutely
no sense just kind of like pop into my
brain
like like it was my normal you know what
i mean
and um i would say that i was like
really afraid of that for a long time
and then doing that for the first night
i was like holy crap
like i guess this works you know so i
guess uh i guess i
could be interested in learning
meditation but like i was that was
something that i would have been opposed
to for a long time until i started
trying that breathing technique
okay so a couple of other reassuring
points so there's something cool about
meditation
so when you do your deep breathing
you're back to normal
and when you stop doing your deep
breathing normal
ends right
for the most part yeah but it's like
it's just kind of like me being weird
like
did that help like yeah you know is this
going to help like
so this is what studies on meditation
show that generally speaking when we
meditate
it creates temporary changes to our mind
and the longer that we meditate if you
meditate for at least 20 minutes a day
three days a week that's the bare
minimum the cool thing about meditation
is that
the longer you meditate and the better
you get at it
the more the longer the buff lasts
so it's sort of like when you start
meditating the buff lasts simply for the
duration of the channeling
so i'm going to channel meditation and
that's when i'm going to regain mana
right it's like what's that mage spell
that education
yeah so like for evocation i only gain
mana as long as i'm channeling
but something really magical happens
with meditation which is that
it reaches a point where it starts to
rewire your brain
and you actually like have a magnetic
post channeling
and this idea of like long-term
meditators who
throughout their entire day they're
happier and their anxiety is lower on a
baseline level
and that's because like as we literally
rewire our brain
there your neurons so thoughts are
generated by neurons
and so as you train your brain to
have senseless thoughts instead of
anxious thoughts those
patterns of neurons will start to like
wire together and then they'll activate
and then you'll be back to your normal
thinking um
i have worked with people and taught
them so people who have had
anxiety disorders like diagnose anxiety
disorders on medication for a decade
and after about a year or two of
medication they will be in what we call
in psychiatry's sustained remission
because we don't use the word cure
because who knows
so what sustained remission is is like
people who
don't have anxiety and are off of
medication
and you know i'm thinking about a
particular person it took like two years
but you know i think that it that is
possible um
so now i've got two options for you
one is that i've got a technique that
is a little bit of a high risk high
reward technique
so what i mean by that is that it's it's
a technique that's really going to work
on a physiologic level
and so when you have anxiety and like
kind of panic stuff i want you to
understand that
you know how it like hits you out of the
blue right so the mental process is not
the start
the start is actually physiology so
you have a physiologic change which then
triggers particular thoughts does that
make sense
um yes okay so there's a particular
technique that i think will work on your
physiology but may actually oddly enough
induce a little bit of anxiety if we do
it now if you're calm
but the idea behind this technique is
that
we're going to create anxiety and then
teach you how to get out of it
and so if you're already anxious it
won't make it worse but you'll kind of
practice it getting out of it
that's sort of what i what i feel like
teaching you today but i just want to be
a little bit cautious
um and then i have a more sort of stable
normal technique which is going to be
like
easy peasy lemon squeezy it's like do
you want an elite mob or do you want a
regular mob like what do you want to
grind on today
i feel like would you judge me if i just
say the regular one
not at all okay because i feel like
generally speaking like
i feel like my anxiety is always kind of
at a base level
you know for the most part and i feel
like i do like a pretty decent job
kind of like keeping myself calm and i
guess like
having that potentially be raised
like i don't know that scares me a
little bit that's totally fine that's
so so i you know the reason that i i
don't judge you at all
and the reason i give you the choice is
because i acknowledge that that could be
a concern
right so it's not like oh like you're
not going to go and they like you
you're like i don't want to wipe on the
elite mob and then run back
you know it's just i ain't nobody got
time for that i can get
elite mob is worth 20 more xp but like
grinding on regular mobs is normally how
you play wow right so
totally fine okay so i'm going to teach
you something called
um alternate nostril breathing okay
tends to be my go-to technique
but is really good from a physiologic
perspective as well but won't make
anything worse okay
so can you do so take your right hand
stick out your thumb and then can you
lift these two fingers
good so what i'm gonna do you have a
deviated septum by the way
i don't think so okay so what i'm gonna
do
and do it with me is block my right
nostril breathe in through my left
[Laughter]
[Music]
and then with a chest full of air i'm
going to block the other nostril with
the other two fingers
and then breathe out
breathe in through the same nostril
without switching
switch and breathe out
in
switch out
good now close your eyes and go at your
own pace
remember that you want to switch on a
full breath
good and then exhale and inhale again
through the same nostril and then switch
we'll practice for about two minutes
so
cool
let your eyes remain closed
go ahead and finish the breath that
you're on
[Music]
and relax just sit with yourself
if you want to continue deep breathing
you can but we'll just sort of sit
in silent meditation for about a minute
fish
now i want you to breathe in for three
seconds
and out for three
and now in for three and out for
five
and then in for three and out for seven
as you're ready to breathe in again
slowly open your eyes
supposed to say anything if you want to
i wasn't sure if you're waiting on me
yeah not really it's kind of awkward for
people they don't really know what
they're supposed to do
i would definitely say this is a little
bit you know
i would say that this is probably not a
very good public practice i feel like
people probably watching the stream are
probably like
you know okay we'll just sit here and
wait for him to finish his breathing you
know
yeah well ideally what happens is people
are meditating with us
oh okay that makes sense that definitely
that definitely makes a lot more sense
i guess i should have instructed people
but i hope i'm noticing now that you
were anxious about that
no not necessarily i just thought it was
kind of funny okay
hmm
yeah what was that like for you chuck it
was good
i mean um you know like i said i
i enjoy my deep breathing quite a bit i
feel like it just kind of takes my
my mind to a nice rested place
of relaxation and i like it quite a bit
like i i almost like i don't want to say
i look forward to it because maybe that
sounds dreadful that like i look forward
to
you know my 15 minutes before bed um
in my 15 minutes waking up but uh yeah
it's it's just nice like it's just
it's nice to have that nice like
relaxation before you sleep and like
when you wake up
although i must say like i have a little
bit of a different schedule where like
um
my wife wakes up with a kid so i wake up
a little earlier to feed the dogs or
else they go crazy
so i wake up and then i don't do my
breathing then i feed them and i kind of
chill for like 20 minutes while they're
outside then i go back upstairs and then
i go to sleep
and then i wake up for real and then i
do my breathing so maybe there's like a
little bit of a disconnect there i'm not
really sure
but yeah yeah i mean i don't think it
sounds bad at all
it sounds like you essentially you're
meditating um when you're doing deep
breathing
and yeah and yeah i don't think it
sounds crazy at all to look forward to
meditating
um you know just a couple things so
first thing is that do whatever practice
works for you
sometimes people find that so this
practice works a little bit more
physiologically than just plain deep
breathing
but the most important common element
chuck
is the length of your exhalation
correlates with the slowness of your
mind
so the longer you exhale the slower your
mind will be
um the question so you were instructing
three seconds of inhale
uh with longer exhales is that something
that you would recommend for deep
breathing too because generally i do
like
as big as i can and then let out as big
as i can and i definitely notice like
when i let out
like i try and like fully deflate
because i feel like that
that always feels like really good so so
not really so what i'm telling you is
the most important thing is the full
deflation
okay so what i uh the
reason to yeah so like that last bit
is really about coming out of the
meditative state and kind of like
re-anchoring us into the world
um but the length of the exhalation is
the most important thing so the reason
that this
meditative the one nostril breathing
practice is that it just slows your
breathing down because you're using half
your nostrils
to let the air in and let the air out
there are also some other kind of weird
physiologic things like it sort of
balances
it deactivates your parasympathetic
nervous system which is what releases
like adrenaline
and stuff like that so it'll slow down
it'll work in a physiologic way to like
reduce your
pro-anxiety hormonal state
but deep breathing can do it too so i'd
say ultimately do what works for you
this uh technique arguably is a little
bit
it will be like statistically slightly
more successful for people with anxiety
okay so would you recommend doing this
in place of like
the deep breathing uh before or after
sleep so so i would
i would recommend that you follow what
works for you
but a good place to start would be you
figure out which one you want to do
first but i would start probably with
this one for about
five to ten minutes and then do your
normal
deep breathing for about 10 minutes with
a goal of about 20 minutes of practice
okay that's uh that's completely
reasonable
um and then
so just other questions like how long
because you were kind of instructing me
this time like how long would you say
like do the nostrils and then like
like uh switch into the uh the regular
breathing
or whatever like i guess with both
nostrils is what i'm saying
yeah so so i would say do the alternate
nostril breathing for five to ten
minutes
and then do whatever deep breathing
practice you have been doing
for about 10 minutes so uh i mean like
literally like continue to swap the
nostrils for the full 10 minutes is that
what you're saying
no yeah for five to ten minutes yeah so
okay okay
gotcha okay
okay um and then after that do your own
deep breathing practice where you know
you're doing whatever
um another question is does it matter
like
how i'm doing it like generally i kind
of do my deep breathing laying down
like kind of preparing for bed like
would it be prefer to
uh sit up or good question so the most
important thing is that your spine and
your neck are straight
so laying down works fine sitting up
works
standing up works okay but your mind
your back needs to be straight
okay i i would say though if you're
gonna do
this alternate nostril breathing
practice i would do that sitting up and
then lay down and then do your
your regular deep breathing okay
i can do that okay excellent questions
look at who has questions now [ __ ]
all right sorry i need to i didn't need
to attack on the [ __ ] at the end
but that's okay you know not a fan
oh interesting right because like
great questions really fantastic
questions chuck love them
any any other questions now i may have
embarrassed you or
tanked it but no i i i actually don't
think i have any other questions
okay great excellent questions so good
luck to you
you know um you know let me know how
things go if you
if you kind of like i think we have like
a quick guide that will send people post
stream
um i hope i'm not shooting myself in the
foot but i'm pretty sure we do this
where
you know a lot of people uh you know
have like more private questions or
things like that about how to find a
therapist and stuff
so i think we've got a you know so we
can sort of help you with
with that a little bit um you know if
you
and so just take advantage of that if
you want to
um and then you know i think if you
if you want to i think there's still
other stuff we could still talk about so
we can i don't know exactly how
scheduling works but if you ever
you know want to come back i think um
definitely we can focus a little bit
more on
on what's happened over the last three
years um
but that's also something that you you
know i you don't need to do with us
you can definitely do with your
therapist but it just feels to me like
something that was pretty significant
that we kind of didn't have time for
which is fine
but you know i would encourage you to
continue exploring that with someone
for sure sound good yeah absolutely all
right good luck to you man
thank you so much for coming on yeah
thank you for having me i appreciate it
take care man bye yeah you too so who
are you rating chat
okay we're going to raid garglon
deeznutz
and joe mama sagandis